I'd consider myself a beginner to hacking, just started off a little differently: I rather fiddled around with some asm and some simplistic art instead of concentrating on palettes and original layout.

Having always liked it, I extended on the smashable Marble Zone block allowing for the fragments to remain in the level, and set a level design around it. It is a attempt to add puzzle elements to a sonic game. As it is possible to screw up without dying, I case you get stuck, the teleport monitor will allow you to restart the level.
This version features two levels, the first one is very slow-paced featuring only the basic block object; I tried to speed up the second one adding some springs and new subtypes of the object featuring alternate gravity.
Level designs are preliminary, so if you suddenly see the sky full of blocks then it is a problem with the level layout.

[​IMG] [​IMG]

Collision with 16x16 blocks is rather awkward, so I'm contemplating rewriting the code for 32x32 blocks. Not quite certain though, as the blocks might get overly huge then...
I also intend to add a SolidObject check for the fragments, as due to the lack of it as of now some collision issues may arise when the blocks are landing on Sonic's feet.
Suggestions and thoughts on this are welcome.

I drew the foreground art myself, though it is obviously inspired by Fez and a Knytt Stories tileset by pip inspired by Fez. I'm admittedly a lousy artist.
The background art is from Marble Garden Zone with a custom layer deformation routine trying to resemble the original scrolling as closely as possible.
I haven't looked into music hacking yet (I usually play without sound anyways), so I just replaced the unsuitable CNZ music with EHZ2P, don't mean to say that it fits though...

----------------

New version, even for those who didn't like the concept I recommend to check out CNZ4. :)

- some bugfixes (primarily collision)
- new zone CPZ (see below)
- added larger 32x32 block object that doesn't fall into pieces
- four new stages (CPZ 1&2, CNZ3 [not quite pleased with it], CNZ 4 as boss stage)
- slight edit of existing stages

[​IMG] [​IMG]
I wonder whether anyone recognizes these graphics...

[​IMG]
Sprite done by Oppolo according to the sprite sheet.

Screenshots of CNZ4 tomorrow. EDIT:
[​IMG] [​IMG]

Still playing without sound, so no significant changes there. 

-------------------------

